Now it's time to talk about a streaming API,
the most performant, but also low level of the different consuming APIs.
Okay, so before you get to see the details of the streaming API implementation,
let's take a look at the problems that we're trying
to solve with the streaming API.
This will help you understand why you may want to use a streaming API rather
than the awesome binding API that we saw in the last section.
Sometimes, it's very useful to be able to write generic JSON processing code.
When I say generic,
I mean code that can operate all different kinds of JSON documents.
For example,
you might be implementing a tool that can operate on
arbitrary unstructured JSON documents.
Jq is a command line tool that can apply jQuery like
queries over JSON files and input.
If you're implementing jq yourself,
then you would need to be able to operate on any type of JSON document.
Same with things like formatters and highlighting tools and IDEs.
Validation is another example.
Checking that all the fields in a JSON document have a certain
property can be useful and doesn't necessarily have to be tied
to a specific document type.
Finally,
transformation of JSON such as pretty printing a JSON document doesn't
need to be tied to a specific document type either.
Now binding APIs bind some JSON input to a specific Java type so
they're unable to operate on an arbitrary JSON document.
We can't use binding APIs to solve these kinds of problems.
We could use DOM-style JSON APIs however,
and that brings us to the second problem that JSON streaming APIs are
trying to solve and their big advantage over DOM-style APIs.
That is performance.
Fundamentally,
DOM and binding-style APIs require you to read the entire
document's object tree into memory in one big go.
That means they're slow because they have all this additional
workaround creating a big tree of objects,
and also very memory hungry because they need to have all the objects in memory.
Streaming APIs are a bit like a speed boat.
They're all about performance.
They let you process each token individually,
and that means they don't need to load all the data into memory in one go
and they can be much more efficient in memory terms. By doing less work than the DOM or binding-style APIs, they also end up faster.